Redo: Quickstart, Install Epinio, Install on RKE2 and System requirements (#242)
epinio/docs: docs/installation/install_epinio.md

title: ""
---

# Install Epinio

## Introduction
Epinio is installed from a single Helm chart and, by default, it also installs [`Kubed`](#kubed), [`MinIO`](#s3-storage),
[`Dex`](#dex) and a [container registry](#container-registry) in your Kubernetes cluster.

> You can disable the installation of `Kubed`, `MinIO`, `Dex` and the `container registry` by changing the settings as described in the respective sections.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can disable the installation of these sub charts by changing the settings as described in the respective sections.
```

<details><summary>Verify external loadbalancer IP assignment</summary>

Depending on your infrastructure and used Kubernetes offering it is recommended to verify if the service
of the just deployed ingress controller has at least one `EXTERNAL-IP` address from the external
loadbalancer provider (AWS ELB and similar) assigned to it.

```bash
kubectl get svc nginx-ingress-controller --namespace nginx-ingress
> NAME                       TYPE           CLUSTER-IP      EXTERNAL-IP
> nginx-ingress-controller   LoadBalancer   10.43.223.228   <pending>
```

If you encounter the `<pending>` value in the `EXTERNAL-IP` column you can try one of the following steps to resolve that:
- Enable the relevant cloud provider resources for your Kubernetes cluster
- Install [MetalLB](https://metallb.universe.tf) loadbalancer into your Kubernetes cluster
- Append `--set "controller.service.externalIPs={<node1-ip>,<node2-ip>}"` to the helm command above, or perform `kubectl edit service nginx-ingress-controller -n nginx-ingress` and add:
  ```yaml
  spec:
    externalIPs:
    - <node1-ip>
    - <node2-ip>
  ```

> Read more about this topic in [NGINX documentation](https://kubernetes.github.io/ingress-nginx/deploy/baremetal).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Read more about this topic in the [NGINX documentation](https://kubernetes.github.io/ingress-nginx/deploy/baremetal).
```

> # Installation of Epinio

Author: resolved by a59a0e187a304ab86d4f9adb7069be342efe0cb6

## Introduction
Epinio is installed from a single Helm chart and, by default, it also installs [`Kubed`](#kubed), [`MinIO`](#s3-storage),
[`Dex`](#dex) and a [container registry](#container-registry) in your Kubernetes cluster.

You can disable the installation of `Kubed`, `MinIO`, `Dex` and the `container registry` by changing the settings as described in the respective sections.

## Prerequisites
See [system requirements](../references/system_requirements/global.md) for a detailed list of external components your
Kubernetes cluster needs to have before you install Epinio.

## Installation

### Ingress Controller
During installation via helm Epinio automatically creates various Ingress resources for its internal components.
These components depend on a running ingress controller providing a **default IngressClass**.

You may install `nginx-ingress-controller` using `LoadBalancer` service type:
```bash
helm repo add nginx-stable https://helm.nginx.com/stable
helm repo update
helm upgrade --install nginx-ingress --namespace nginx-ingress nginx-stable/nginx-ingress \
    --set controller.setAsDefaultIngress=true \
    --create-namespace

> ```

Author: I moved the info block under `Install Epinio` and changed the `Caution` box for `Loadbalancer IP assigment` to a collapsible detail. via b1c76e36561678d6ad3e3da0195867303f4afede

:::caution
Depending on your infrastructure and used Kubernetes offering it is recommended to verify if the service of the just deployed ingress
controller has at least one `EXTERNAL-IP` address from the external loadbalancer provider (AWS ELB and similar) assigned to it.

```bash
kubectl get svc nginx-ingress-controller --namespace nginx-ingress
> NAME                       TYPE           CLUSTER-IP      EXTERNAL-IP
> nginx-ingress-controller   LoadBalancer   10.43.223.228   <pending>
```

If you encounter the `<pending>` value in the `EXTERNAL-IP` column you can try one of the following steps to resolve that:
- Enable the relevant cloud provider resources for your Kubernetes cluster
- Install [MetalLB](https://metallb.universe.tf) loadbalancer into your Kubernetes cluster
- Append `--set "controller.service.externalIPs={<node1-ip>,<node2-ip>}"` to the helm command above, or perform `kubectl edit service nginx-ingress-controller -n nginx-ingress` and add:
  ```yaml
  spec:
    externalIPs:
    - <node1-ip>
    - <node2-ip>

>   ```

Author: I don't like the `Troubleshooting` section, it doesn't fit anywhere on that page. Both `Entity Too Large` and `ingressClass` moved to `Install Epinio` section where it makes better sense IMO.

If cert-manager is not already installed on the cluster, it can be installed like this:

```bash
helm repo add jetstack https://charts.jetstack.io
helm repo update
helm upgrade --install cert-manager jetstack/cert-manager --namespace cert-manager  \
    --set installCRDs=true \
    --set extraArgs={--enable-certificate-owner-ref=true} \
    --create-namespace
```
:::caution
If cert-manager isn't installed in the namespace `cert-manager`,
you have to set `.Values.certManagerNamespace` accordingly, otherwise Epinio installation will fail.
:::

> ### Dynamic storage provisionier

Reviewer 2: I believe is provisioner (without "i")?

Author: ```suggestion
### Dynamic storage provisioner
```

:::info
To verify that your cluster provides a default StorageClass run the command `kubectl get storageclass`. The default StorageClass is marked with the string `(default)` next to its name in the output list.
:::

As an example, you can deploy and configure `local-path` dynamic storage provisioner by running:
```bash
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rancher/local-path-provisioner/master/deploy/local-path-storage.yaml
kubectl patch storageclass local-path -p '{"metadata": {"annotations":{"storageclass.kubernetes.io/is-default-class":"true"}}}'
```

### Install Epinio

If the above dependencies are available or going to be installed by this chart,
Epinio can be installed with the following:
```bash
helm repo add epinio https://epinio.github.io/helm-charts
helm repo update
helm upgrade --install epinio epinio/epinio --namespace epinio --create-namespace \
    --set global.domain=myepiniodomain.org
```
<details><summary>With "Let's Encrypt" certificates</summary>

> <p>To generate trusted TLS certificates with "Let's Encrypt" for your public domain provide

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<p>To generate trusted TLS certificates with "Let's Encrypt" for your public domain set
```

> `.Values.global.tlsIssuer` with value `letsencrypt-production` and your e-mail as value for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`.Values.global.tlsIssuer` to `letsencrypt-production` and your e-mail as value for
```

If cert-manager is not already installed on the cluster, it can be installed like this:

```bash
helm repo add jetstack https://charts.jetstack.io
helm repo update
helm upgrade --install cert-manager jetstack/cert-manager --namespace cert-manager  \
    --set installCRDs=true \
    --set extraArgs={--enable-certificate-owner-ref=true} \
    --create-namespace
```
:::caution
If cert-manager isn't installed in the namespace `cert-manager`,
you have to set `.Values.certManagerNamespace` accordingly, otherwise Epinio installation will fail.
:::

### Dynamic storage provisionier
Epinio needs a dynamic storage provisioner with existing **default StorageClass**. You may deploy any storage provisioner

> of your choice, preferably with `ReadWriteMany` (RWX) Access Mode.

Reviewer: In file `docs/howtos/install_epinio_on_rke.md` the phrasing about the storage provisioner is stricter about RWX, it seems to indicate a `must have`, not a `preferably`. Recommend to have the two places say the same thing.

Author: resolved by ad889100488915b82ee3c4f30c5c3e6b48298e10

:::info

> You may verify that a default StorageClass is available in your cluster in `kubectl get storageclass` output. The default StorageClass is marked by `(default)` string next to its name in the output.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To verify that your cluster provides a default StorageClass run the command  `kubectl get storageclass`. The default StorageClass is marked with the string `(default)` next to its name in the output list.
```

Same thing as in file `docs/howtos/install_epinio_on_rke.md`

Author: resolved by ad889100488915b82ee3c4f30c5c3e6b48298e10

- [Install on EKS](../howtos/install_epinio_on_eks.md) - Install Epinio on AWS EKS cluster

> *NOTE*: The Public Cloud howto lists the three major Cloud providers but Epinio can run on any Kubernetes cluster.

## Internal Epinio components
### Kubed

Kubed is installed as a subchart when `.Values.kubed.enabled` is true (default).
If you already have kubed running, you can skip the installation by setting

> the helm value "kubed.enabled" to "false".

Reviewer: Style differences up here and then also compared to the following text:

 - `.Values.kubed.enabled`, vs `kubed.enabled`, and different quoting. Later the quoting standardizes on back ticks. Also later standardizes on the `.Values...` form. Recommend to do that here too.
 - true and false are used with and without quotes, and later standardizes on back-tick quoting. Recommend to to do that here also.

Author: resolved by 33d1f9dcbdb55a700cf02ed68507c973119f3ab7

### S3 storage

Epinio is using an S3 compatible storage to store the application source code.
This chart will install [Minio](https://min.io/) when `.Values.minio.enabled` is
true (default).

In addition to Minio, Epinio offers [s3gw](https://s3gw.io/) as another internal S3 compatible storage. It is installed when `.Values.minio.enabled` is set to `false` and `.Values.s3gw.enabled` is set to `true`.

Both choices for internal S3 compatible storage can be configured to use a user-defined storageClass. If no StorageClass is defined, the default storageClass is used. For Minio the custom storageClass is set via the value of `.Values.persistance.storageClass`. For s3gw the custom storageClass is set via the value of `.Values.s3gw.storageClass.name`.

> Any external S3 compatible solution can be used instead by setting `Values.minio.enabled` value to `false` (`Values.s3gw.enabled` is `false` by default) and using [the values under `s3`](https://github.com/epinio/helm-charts/blob/b389a4875af9f03b484a911c49a14f834ba04b64/chart/epinio/values.yaml#L44) to point to the desired S3 server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Any external S3 compatible solution can be used instead by setting `.Values.minio.enabled` value to `false` (`.Values.s3gw.enabled` is `false` by default) and using [the values under `s3`](https://github.com/epinio/helm-charts/blob/b389a4875af9f03b484a911c49a14f834ba04b64/chart/epinio/values.yaml#L44) to point to the desired S3 server.
```

### Dex

[Dex](https://dexidp.io) OpenID Connect Provider is installed as a subchart when `.Values.global.dex.enabled` is set to `true` (default).

In case you don't need to use an identity provider you may set the value to `false` and use only local epinio users. Here you will find more info about [OIDC Authentication](../references/authentication_oidc.md).

### Container Registry

When Epinio builds a container image for an application from source, it needs
to store that image to a container registry. Epinio installs a container registry
on the cluster when `.Values.containerregistry.enabled` is `true` (default).

> Any container registry that supports basic auth authentication (e.g. gcr, dockerhub etc) can be used

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Any container registry that supports basic auth authentication (e.g. gcr, dockerhub, etc) can be used
```

This chart will install [Minio](https://min.io/) when `.Values.minio.enabled` is
`true` (default).

In addition to Minio, Epinio offers [s3gw](https://s3gw.io/) as another internal S3 compatible storage. It is installed when `.Values.minio.enabled` is set to `false` and `.Values.s3gw.enabled` is set to `true`.

Both choices for internal S3 compatible storage can be configured to use a user-defined storageClass. If no StorageClass is defined, the default storageClass is used. For Minio the custom storageClass is set via the value of `.Values.persistance.storageClass`. For s3gw the custom storageClass is set via the value of `.Values.s3gw.storageClass.name`.

Any external S3 compatible solution can be used instead by setting `.Values.minio.enabled` value to `false` (`.Values.s3gw.enabled` is `false` by default) and using [the values under `s3`](https://github.com/epinio/helm-charts/blob/b389a4875af9f03b484a911c49a14f834ba04b64/chart/epinio/values.yaml#L44) to point to the desired S3 server.

### Dex

[Dex](https://dexidp.io) OpenID Connect Provider is installed as a subchart when `.Values.global.dex.enabled` is set to `true` (default).

> In case you don't need to use an identity provider you may set the value to `false` and use only local epinio users. Here you will find more info about [OIDC Authentication](../references/authentication_oidc.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In case you don't need to use an identity provider you may set the value to `false` and use only local epinio users. [OIDC Authentication](../references/authentication_oidc.md) provides more information.
```
